\section{Related Work}
\label{sec:related}

\paragraph{Functional Reactive Programming}
The origins of functional reactive programming (FRP) lie in the creation of
animations \cite{DBLP:conf/icfp/ElliottH97}, and many later developments use
FRP as the basis for purely functional GUIs. 

\dsl{} focuses on easily describing \emph{micro-animations}, which differ from general
\emph{animoations} as considered by FRP. The latter can typically be described
by a time-paramterized picture function \hs{Time -> Picture}. While a subset of
all possible animations, micro-animations are not easily described by such a
function because many small micro-animations can be active at the same time and
their timing depends on user interaction.

In this work, we have not focused on the underlying implementation platform for
\dsl{}, but in principle it should be implementable on top of both FRP and
traditional event-driven frameworks. Our current imnlementation is based on the
latter, but it is interesting feature work to create an implementation of the
\hs{linearTo}, \hs{sequential} and \hs{parallel} operations in terms of FRP
behaviours and events.

\paragraph{Animation Frameworks}

Typical micro-animation libraries for web applications (with CSS or JavaScript)
and animation constructions in game engines provide a variety of configurable
pre-made operations while composing complex animations or integrating new types
of operations is difficult. \dsl{} focuses on the creation of complex sequences
of events while still providing the ability to embed new animation primitives.
We have looked at GSAP as an example of such libraries and some of the limits
in combining extensibility with callbacks and inspectability. \dsl{} is an
exercise in improving this combination of features forward in a direction which
is more predictable for the user.

\paragraph{Planning-Based Animations}

\dsl{} shares similarities with approaches which specify an animation as a plan
which needs to be executed
\cite{DBLP:conf/chi/KurlanderL95,DBLP:conf/eics/MirlacherPB12}. In essence an
animation is outlined by a series of actions specified upfront, which is the
plan of the animation. The coordinator, who manages and advances the
animations, is implemented as part of the hosting application. \dsl{} realizes
these plan-based animations with only a few core principles and features the
possibility of adding custom operations and inspection. A detailed comparison
with these approaches is difficult, since their papers are very light on
details of the actual implementation aspect.

\paragraph{Inspectable DSLs}

There are other DSLs which focus on inspectability aspects, such as for parsers
\cite{DBLP:journals/scp/Hughes00,DBLP:journals/corr/CapriottiK14,DBLP:conf/icfp/Lindley14},
non-determinism \cite{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-1905-06544}, remote execution
\cite{DBLP:conf/haskell/Gibbons16,DBLP:conf/haskell/GillSDEFGRSS15} or build
systems \cite{DBLP:journals/pacmpl/MokhovMJ18}. However, none of these 
focus on providing both extensibility and expressiveness as additional features.

